# AI And Clean Energy

[How AI and Energy-as-a-Service Will Drive Decarbonization](https://www.toolbox.com/tech/artificial-intelligence/guest-article/how-ai-and-energy-as-a-service-will-drive-decarbonization/)

This article is interesting as it seems to focus on an area where Artificial Intelligence oftentimes is not referenced, Climate Change. It seems a bit unintuitive, in contrast to other Big Data applications, where an AI is directly set to resolve some issue, here, the AI seems to serve a more tertiary role. Instead of directly 'solving' climate change, instead, the author suggests to use AI in order to make predictions about energy usage, which can then be optimized to be heavily efficient. This is especially useful when combined with some highly variable renewable sources of energy, such as Solar and Wind. By using AI to predict both the variable energy usage, as well as variable energy supply, we can create much more efficient energy system.

The interesting part about this article is how it uses AI as almost a secondary stance. Usually, AI seems to be thrown directly at a problem as it uses data to try and find a solution. For example, automated cars are almost entirely reliant on AI to do all the heavy lifting. Here, however, AI serves as a side benefit, almost an optimizer instead of the direct solution. I think this article serves to remind us all not to be limited about the scope of AI, and to continually think about how we can apply these in marginal areas to receive large benefits and value for society as a whole.

## Comment from Jacob Harsch

This article is really interesting because it isn't proposing any large-scale AI project that is overly complex, but rather points out that data that is already being collected could be harnessed as a tool to combat an important issue. The electrical grid management and usage of renewable resources is a difficult task to manage effectively, but by having technology take advantage of information we already have, it could be optimized to be more environmentally efficient. What is most interesting to me is how sometimes, just identifying how a software could be used and implemented is often more difficult than the actual creation process.

## Comment from Abdullah Javaid Chaudhry | aqhra050

Like Jacob, I also found the article very interesting in that it offers a potential solution to one of the largest problems that prevent adoption of sources of renewable energy such as Solar, Wind, and Tidal. In that while electricity demand is dynamic (scaling upwards and downwards) these sources of renewable energy cannot be scaled immediately to meet fluctuations in electricity demand (requiring long-term investments say the installation of a new solar farm unlike traditional polluting resources which have an element of play to them). The solution proposed by the article is to utiize prediction of electricity demand which if perfect can mean that the initial construction of sources of renewable energy will be perfect so as to meet all flucatation, effectively removing a hindrance towards adoption of renewable energy will be removed. What is also great is that the source of data needed for such an AI system is within reach since many homes already have smart meters.
